Now that we finished covering
the image counter case study,
let's turn our attention
to another case study.
This is a completable
futures variant
of the ImageStreamGang example.
And so we'll start
off by reviewing
the design of the
ImageStreamGang app,
and then we'll focus
primarily on the way
in which the completable futures
version compares and contrasts
to the earlier version
we looked at that
was based on parallel streams.
And of course, as always,
you can download this app
from my GitHub repository in
the ImageStreamGang folder.
So this app applies a number
of Java parallelism frameworks
that do the following things.
One thing it does is it
ignores cached images.
So if you have a list
of URLs to download
and you've already
downloaded some of them,
they'll just be ignored.
The next thing we do is we
download the non-cached images.
The third thing we
do is we apply a list
of filters to each image.
We go ahead and store
the filtered images
in the local file
system on the device.
And then the final
thing we do, which
is sort of outside the scope
of those earlier steps,
is we take the results that have
been stored in the file system,
and we display them
to the user somehow.
There's a couple different
variants of this program.
One uses Android as
the user interface.
One uses command line.
They share the vast
amount of code,
because it doesn't
really matter.
Android supports the features
that we're using here, just
like other versions of Java.
Although there are
some subtle differences
that we'll talk about later.
Now, I mentioned before
that we've already
looked at one implementation
of this program.
The earlier version
that we looked at
was the Java parallel
ImageStreamGang example.
And if you take a look
on the left-hand side,
you'll see the architecture of
the parallel streams version,
where we have a fork/join
thread pool that
will process the different
images in parallel.
And you can see the
pipeline of steps.
All of the behaviors in
the parallel stream variant
are synchronous.
So we synchronously check
if an image is cached.
We synchronously check to
see if we synchronously
download an image.
If it was not cached,
we synchronously
apply the filters--
and so on and so forth.
In contrast, all
of the behaviors
that we use for the
completable futures variant
are asynchronous.
But before I get too
far ahead of myself,
notice how all of those
asynchronous behaviors
are guided by the use of
Java sequential streams.
So we're going to end up
taking a list of URLs,
and then we will asynchronously
check to see if they're cached.
If they are not cached, we will
asynchronously download them.
We will then asynchronously
apply the filters.
We will collect everything
up, and then we'll
go ahead and log the results.
So somewhat similar flow,
because both of the programs
are using streams.
But as you see, as we
get further into this,
the behaviors are
quite different.
So this is basically the
high-level view of this.
The stream provides
the guidance.
We will ignore any images that
are cached asynchronously.
We're going to check
this asynchronously using
supplyAsync, as
you'll see shortly.
We're then going to download
these non-cached images
asynchronously.
As those downloads complete--
asynchronously-- we will apply
a list of filters and store
the filtered images
in the file system--
asynchronously.
And then we're going to go ahead
and trigger all this stream
processing to run
asynchronously by using
a variant of the
FuturesCollector class.
And this variant is very cool.
It's called stream
of FuturesCollector.
But we'll talk about
that in a little bit.
When we're all done, we'll
go ahead and get the results
and print the results
of the computation,
just to show what happened.
Ultimately, after
we're finished here,
as with the parallel
stream version,
we'll display the
images to the user.
Now, one of the
things to note here
is the use of completable
futures in conjunction
with streams helps to close
the gap between the domain
intent and the implementation--
and more importantly,
efficiently close the gap.
So the stream part helps to
close the gap from a logical,
understand what the heck's
going on perspective.
And the use of
completable futures
helps to close the gap in
a way that's efficient.
And we'll talk, shortly, about
what we mean by efficient here,
because it really turns out
that this is a better way
to go than using the parallel
streams approach if performance
is all that matters.
But even though everything's
done asynchronously,
the use of streams still
helps to get across the fact
that there's a flow here.
And to some extent, unlike
the image counter example--
which I think is super, duper
cool, but is a little bit
hard to get your head
around, because all
the asynchrony
stuff is going on,
and it's not really guided by
something as well-structured
as the sequential
streams are in this case.
Now, maybe it's just
the fact that I already
knew the flow of the
logic because I'd written
the parallel streams version--
and actually, a sequential
streams version-- earlier.
But I find it perhaps
a bit more intuitive
to structure and
guide things using
sequential streams,
and then have
the asynchronous computations
run as part of the behavior
portion.